nasm -f win64 -o obj.o -l list.l a01.asm

Explanation of the Command
nasm:

This is the Netwide Assembler (NASM), a popular assembler for x86 architecture, which converts assembly code into machine code.
-f win64:

The -f flag specifies the output format for the object file.
win64 tells NASM to generate an object file in the 64-bit Windows format. If you were targeting Linux, you might use elf64 instead of win64.
-o obj.o:

The -o flag specifies the name of the output file.
In this case, the object file will be named obj.o. This file contains machine code generated from your assembly code but isn't a complete executable yet—it needs to be linked into a final executable.
-l list.l:

The -l flag tells NASM to create a listing file, which is a text file that provides detailed information about the assembly process.
The file list.l will contain information such as the line-by-line assembly code and its corresponding machine code. This is useful for debugging and analysis.
a01.asm:

This is the input assembly file that you want to assemble. NASM will read the code in a01.asm and convert it into machine code.
Summary of What Happens
The NASM command takes the assembly source file a01.asm.
It assembles the code into a 64-bit Windows object file (obj.o).
It also generates a listing file (list.l) that shows detailed assembly and machine code information.
After this, you will typically need to link the object file (obj.o) to create an executable.


after the above command we can use gedit command to open the fils

after that an executable file can be created usin below command

ld -o exe.x obj.o

an exe.x excutable file is created from obj.o file

it can be directly excuted from the terminal using below command

./exe.x 

./ meaning in the same directory where the file stays


so in the above context if we do any changes in .asm file it wont automatically change the list.l and obj.o files
so we hve to again enter above commands and recreate obj. o and list.l but it takes time
so to make it easier we make a file named "Makefile" and include above "nasm -f win64 -0 obj.0 -l list.l " and 
"ld -o exex.x obj.o" command in above file 
then when changes do in the above .asm file we coud easily run "make" command in the terminal and recreate the exex.x file]
after that it can be run by ./exe.x

Makefile is in the directory